we have live in studio now as of January
17 1991 father Bill Davis of the
Christic Institute who has an open
invitation to come on the show whenever
there's news and there's news I as a
matter of fact the high father Davis hi
really there's a little news but I hope
we can spend probably a good part of the
time tonight talking about the war and
its relationship to the issues that
we've been dealing with okay well it
does seem is part of gore vidal's
favorite TV show this morning the the
Keating five investigations somebody
voiced during the hearings that you know
what's all this investigation and those
stuff doesn't matter anymore because
we're at war and thinking that the
Christic institute's oral arguments were
supposed to resume on the fifteenth on
d-day so to speak thinking a lot of
people thinking especially now well you
know it isn't all that important what's
important is that we've attacked iraq we
wiped out their planes we wiped out
their missiles we are about extra hair
on our chests now and we haven't lost a
man or woman and we are riding high
we've also wiped out our own
constitution in the process of course
but you're right there are a lot of
things that we aren't supposed to think
about anymore now that the war fever has
taken over it's ironic though that you
mentioned the oral arguments they were
scheduled for the 15th actually there's
been another delay in that because of
scheduling conflicts with some of the
defense attorneys they will now be held
on februari the 25th so we ask people to
be patient and bear with us another
slight delay there but the issues don't
go away and you know I was just
reflecting on the way over here and
listening to that wonderful tape by gore
Vidal that you played that really what's
at stake here what we've been trying to
say for a long time with
its lawsuit and and in various
interviews and right here on this
program is that we have a constitutional
crisis going on a crisis that most
people don't seem to recognize or pick
up on a few weeks ago as you remember we
we tried to deal with the whole
intelligence bill and the way a craven
Congress was once again handing over its
oversight functions handing over it's a
balance of checks and the balance of
powers within the three branches of
government and basically selling out
giving over the power of the purse and
giving over the power to declare war
more recently now of course we've seen
Congress once again pass a resolution
where they basically gave to the
President or tried to give to the
president the power to declare war which
of course he didn't need and was bound
to do on his own at any rate but many
constitutional scholars are saying that
it was clearly in violation of article 1
section 8 of the Constitution Congress
is the only one that has the right to
declare war and they may not hand it
over to the President or anyone else to
declare as he sees fit so that's kind of
number one connection it's ironic to the
you should mention the SNL's and your
reference to gore Vidal there that we
aren't supposed to think about that
anymore one of the things that folks may
have caught or may have missed because
it appeared in the LA Times only in the
D section the business section on
december twenty second there was an
article appropriately enough under the
headline briefly a few little brief
items that they had collected on that
page and the briefly item the second one
on december twenty second noted that the
panel has now cleared the S&I for the
the excuse me the CIA for any connection
to the SNL failures well what they did
of course was they looked into a
in their usual fashion they went to the
CIA and said gee were you connected with
that and the CIA said no and so without
any kind of subpoena power without any
kind of questioning under oath they
simply took the word of the CIA for that
what's been going on of course is not
just direct CIA involvement but more
frequently the off-the-shelf crowd the
seacord shaklee network has been
definitely linked now to a number of the
SNL's that failed they were using the
SNL's as a way of funding their contra
operation and God knows what else
getting unsecured loans from them so I
suppose technically one can say that it
wasn't the CIA that was involved with
the SNL's but certainly this privatized
CIA these these off-the-shelf operators
were involved and it's not surprising
that the house panel didn't really get
out that kind of information the panel
chaired by Beal Anson who has shown
himself all too compliant in this issue
all along I personally spoke to him once
before this investigation began where he
assured me that if anything like this
happened it must have been back during
kcz era and that nothing like that would
be going on now so I'm not terribly
surprised when his panel now having
completed its investigation finds no
evidence that the Central Intelligence
Agency was involved with any of the
savings and loan association failures
it's further interesting that the
committee's staff the Intelligence
Committee staff that looked into a lot
of this was headed by Daniel child's
Daniel child's is a former comptroller
or chief financial officer for the CIA
and he's done this before he's come out
of the CIA and gone to the Senate
Intelligence Committee to work for them
for a time then gone back to the CIA now
he's come out again or allegedly came
out to work for the
the House Intelligence Committee so when
this group of people find no evidence it
doesn't mean that the evidence doesn't
exist it just means that they didn't
find it so both those brief items of
update on the case and one other oh yeah
john hull our friend is back in the news
again having fled costa rica illegally
to avoid charges down there and live for
a time in the u.s. under no threat he
most recently as many of your friends
will note went to Central America and
showed up in all places in Hui golpo
Nicaragua an area controlled by former
Contras and by the way hulle hulle
allegedly fled Costa Rica because he
said he had a need for advanced medical
care he has a very bad heart according
to him I've been to Nicaragua a few
times I really don't believe and don't
know of any other authorities who would
say that hooey golpo Nicaragua is noted
for its advanced medical facilities but
at any rate when Nicaragua recently a
judge issued an order for his arrest
there so that he could be extradited to
Costa Rica he has now fled once again
and is back in the United States where
of course nobody from any of the law
enforcement agencies seemed to be
looking for him nor do the congressional
committees seemed to want to subpoena
him although senator Kerry said at one
time if he ever came back here he would
subpoena him and question him under oath
so with all of that in mind and while
we're waiting to get subpoena power back
so that we can go after some of these
people we suddenly find ourselves of
course at war and even the way that this
war began has connections with some of
the things that we've been pursuing in
the Krista against to lawsuit for
instance the the brutal kind of
propaganda that has gone on about
how we are doing everything possible to
avoid war and we have to bring this
terrible Saddam Hussein to heal a lot of
that we now find was financed by a new
organization called the Coalition for
America at risk and some rather
interesting people show up in that group
among others is Christic defendant Major
General John single good old
unreconstructed anti-communist John he
along with other right-wing funders like
Richard Vickery and former US ambassador
to Costa Rica Luis tams a man who has
already admitted under oath that he went
to Costa Rica to help open the southern
front and we know that he and others
were involved not only with the illegal
resupply of the Contras but with the
drug traffic going through that country
and his banned for life from Costa Rica
because of that Louis tams Richard
vagary Johnson globe and a number of
other conservatives have put together a
multi-million dollar budget and we're
putting out on the airwaves and in the
TV channels carefully placed spots some
700 carefully placed TV spots costing
millions of dollars describing the
murdered cadiz lying in heaps and and
saying that they have to stop the
Holocaust etc so it's no wonder that a
lot of North Americans feel that the war
was inevitable one hears in all kinds of
interviews although I'm always I'm
always concerned that some of these
interviews on the street are of course
carefully chosen by the mainstream media
to give an appearance that I think goes
beyond what the popular support is
nevertheless a lot of Americans of
course are voicing expressions like you
know well we we've got to do what we've
got to do perhaps aping the president
who said last Sunday on the White House
lawn when asked about those Americans
who do not want
or he his only answer was we've got to
do what we've got to do I don't quite
see the logic in that nor do I see the
logic in the constant refrain that he
has done everything possible to avoid
war people never seem to notice that the
one thing we needed to do to avoid war
has simply not started simply not begin
the war the war was not inevitable I'm
convinced that it was not needed the
sanctions we're working just recently
the one rubber tire plant in Iraq was
forced to shut down for lack of
materials if they can't make tires and
they can't import tires it would seem to
me that it's only a matter of time
before they're going to have a lot of
problem even moving their army around
without any rubber tires and that's just
one commodity so you know this this rush
to war and this popularized notion that
we have to do it and we have to do it
now was I think outrageous propaganda it
it's obscene propaganda and when I see
that some of it was manipulated by
people like General John Singh globe and
lowest hams of course one can understand
it a little better what we can't
understand the course is a president who
goes about mouthing such diplomatic
phrases as fact that Hussein is going to
get his ass kicked I think George Bush
is kicking ass I think it's our asses
though that are being kicked by this
kind of duping of the American public
and having us pay for a totally
unnecessary war where even if our boys
don't get killed there are thousands of
Iraqis that are going to be absolutely
wiped out and you know really the thing
that I keep coming back to is if we take
our own rhetoric seriously we have said
that Saddam Hussein is a madman I don't
believe that by the way not
for a minute but let's grant the ones
who say that for the sake of argument
that it may be true if true then a lot
of Iraqi citizens are being punished for
something that their own mad leader whom
they did not elect and over whom they
have no control that why should they
have bombs dropped on them and and one
here is the racist argument that that we
need to do it quickly and massively and
aggressively and from the sky so that
none of our boys will be hurt well what
about a hundred thousand or so of the
Iraqis who made no other error in life
and have done nothing against the United
States other than had the misfortune to
be born in places like Baghdad when I
visited Baghdad a few years ago I I saw
the scenes you know ordinary people
working class stiffs women children
whatever coming and going and having
very little control over their
government in a situation that I think
we are headed toward given the present
decline in any kind of constitutional
democracy here but I can't help thinking
about those individual Iraqis and when I
hear such stupidities as we've got to do
what we've got to do or we need to get
the job done with and get it over with
quickly without ever thinking for a
moment what does that mean the job the
job and it's not Saddam Hussein who's
going to get his butt kicked it's going
to be thousands of Iraqis we're going to
have their bodies blown apart and their
families blown apart and all for this
unnecessary macho kind of John Wayne
approach that is is so distressing but
it is pressed upon the American people I
think with with a kind of force fed
ignorance that comes through the media
so you know I'm sorry if I'm stepping on
some toes out there but I think that
what we are doing is
seen it was totally unnecessary and I
think the important thing that we have
to keep in mind though is the why would
somebody like Bush do it I think when
when you when you run through the
various reasons that he gave of course
most of them don't make sense he wanted
to stop naked aggression I've said
before if George Bush wants to stop
naked aggression he should resign he he
has given a whole variety of reasons
none of which hold up and I think if we
look back at our own most recent history
if we look just one year ago to the
kinds of things that we were saying
about Noriega and how we had to take him
out and you know we had to prove that
our testosterone level is up well you
know look at Panama today it is not more
democratic the drug situation has not
changed the banking system is still
being used by the scum of the earth to
launder their illegal funds and the
present government of Panama refuses to
allow any changes in that the people God
knows are worse off if anything and
certainly the thousands of people that
were killed we now know that again the
US public was lied to there weren't some
202 casualties as we were told that it
runs certainly to the thousands those
families I don't think would consider
themselves better off nor would the
hundreds of thousands who have been left
homeless because of this and the country
hasn't been rebuilt so when one has to
say well you know we had to do what we
had to do in Panama but with what result
who is better off is the world really a
better place because we went in and
smashed that country oh sure Manuel
Noriega is in jail but you'll notice
that he hasn't come to trial yet and I
have my doubts that he ever will or
it'll certainly be a very truncated
trial if he does so you know
who is better off and what is the result
of it I think when we wake up the
morning after Iraq we will find that
bush and company have achieved their
objectives very well and their
objectives are to anger the whole Arabic
world so that for at least the next 10
years we will now have the new enemy we
couldn't look to the Communist world
anymore because of the unilateral
dismantling of the Warsaw Pact by
Gorbachev and the collapse of the Soviet
Union and the military contractors the
people the banks and the businessmen who
really run the country were having
apoplexy they needed a new enemy Noriega
is in jail that one had pretty well
petered out so we got the new demon
Saddam Hussein but I think behind him
they see now the future of this whole
new Arabic enemy and the possibility of
instituting further elements of the
national security state because the
threat of terrorism real and imagined
will be there so we were in for now a
whole new round of national security
state type of maneuvers so I think that
you know in a way this may seem a
distraction from the Christic
Institute's lawsuit but it is not it is
precisely what we've been worried about
and trying to get the public to look at
and trying to get the courts to deal
with and we will get the courts to deal
with a chunk of it but it's very clear
that the forces we are up against are
not standing still they are moving I
think in some very obscene ways and my
heart is heavy tonight particularly for
the innocent people of Iraq but I am
also concerned about the people in this
country who love democracy and who
really want the Constitution this frail
experiment in government by the people
do we are we losing it is it getting
away from us I think
the events of the last few days would
indicate that we are let me just close
on one very hopeful note I've been to
several of the demonstrations lately it
was amazing to me how they mushroomed
all across the country on on very short
notice I think that in the next few days
there will be probably even more
demonstrations although many people are
disheartened over the invasion I would
simply say let's not give up yet let's
not give the country over to this crowd
of national security state experts with
their off-the-shelf enforcement
mechanisms I think we can still expose
these people and take them out because
they're their support is not what the
press would claim it is it may be very
wide but it's only a half an inch thick
and for most of us the kind of brutal
activity that's gone on these last few
hours is an indication that we can no
longer allow this to be kind of a
sidelight in our life if if we want our
country to be what it is supposed to be
and if we want our world to be a human
place then we've got to move it and the
time is short okay thank you Father
Davis you have a few minutes to take yes
I do I'd be great take a few phone calls
if you want to talk to father Bill Davis
of the Christic institute and the
Christic institute by the way of Los
Angeles is if you want to put a shoulder
to the wheel there at area code 21 3287
1556 yes and maybe if I might if if
people want to call that number there is
one rather interesting new publication
that we have that I didn't bring with me
tonight but folks can get it from by
calling that number it's by Peter Dale
Scott who is most of you know as a
wonderful academician and careful
documenter of the kinds of things that
we've been talking about he has a new
book that's coming out in a month or two
it's called
cocaine politics it's about drugs armies
and the CIA in Central America by Peter
Dale Scott and Jonathan Marshall because
a couple of chapters of that book deal
with the kind of constitutional issues
that we're dealing with they've given us
permission to print a monograph ahead of
time it's a pre-publication actually an
excerpt from the book but it's coming
out ahead of the actual publication of
the book and that is available from our
office through that number that you just
gave out okay that's area 213 287 1556
and I think maybe you should move up a
little closer here to the phone got it
thanks okay bring a chair hello yes
hello a father I have a question 2
comments are you aware that Saudi Arabia
Kuwait and the efforts have poured
hundreds of billions of dollars into the
u.s. pressuring over the last month or
so and that one of the things are trying
to do in exchange for what the US is
doing in their part of the world the
idea is that they are kind by pulling
this money into the US Treasury they're
trying to help you know dates with the
debt and the bailout of the SNL's an
exchange these countries are pressuring
young states to hold a peace conference
on Israel after the thing in Iraq is
over with in other words there's a quid
pro quo that's one point I want to make
the other point I wanted to make is this
that the the US will after this often
Iraq will be over the US will
effectively control the major
oil-producing countries of the Middle
East and this is what I think this is
why I think the strategy of a bush is
that he feels that and this is something
I heard from Jimmy Carter to that OPEC
the oil-producing exporting countries
have blackmailed the United States
to stop widespread development of
alternative energy sources so the bush
strategy is that by acquiring control of
these oil-producing countries he will
then be able to go to alternative energy
sources in a way over a period of time
and will not be blackmailed by OPEC I
want to know what do you think of those
things that I've heard on various news
programs and also in various alternative
new magazines concerning not only the
fact that the pouring of hundreds of
billions dollars into the Treasury but
also about the Peace Conference and the
end the environment well I thank you for
your comments I they are very
interesting and yes I've heard of some
of these things I would say first of all
with regard to the money and the SNL
question that's a whole area that needs
so much more investigation it's very
clear from Pete bruton's articles and
from a number of other sources that
something is swimming around in there
and for that to get a cover-up by again
a bumbling congressional committee that
refuses to even go after it with
subpoena power is absurd we've got to
follow the money we've got to follow the
money that went through the SNL's we've
got to follow the money as you suggest
that may now be coming in to bail out
the SNL's and and certainly banking
interests are a major force deciding
what is and is not done in the world the
other point that you raise though I find
is even more interesting I don't know
how much alternative energy fits into
this the the modern cry on the street of
course is no blood for oil and the
assumption is that the fighting in Iraq
and Kuwait is primarily over oil I guess
I don't really want to quarrel with that
but I certainly want to expand it I
don't think it's just oil you know bush
and others as you suggest hey there are
other sources there are other ways of
getting around that problem I think what
it's about is power and especially the
power that goes into the banking
community and that goes into the
military contractors I tell you they
were having apoplexy with all this talk
about a piece
end and you know cuts in the weapons
system and you know you don't hear that
kind of talk anymore the pleasure to
think about the peace conference with
Israel do you think that the Arab
countries the ones that are now allies
of United States are going to pressure
the United States to hold a peace
conference on israel after the Iraqi
thing is settled I don't know I I would
hope that there could be some kind of
comprehensive look at that area I don't
personally see any kind of possibility
of even a modest peace until a
Palestinian question is dealt with so I
do think that that's a part of it but
there are so many theories floating
around about you know Israel is going to
be scapegoated in this whole thing it
has been already in many ways I I hope
that you know one of the things I think
we can push for and help to get on the
boards is some kind of comprehensive
look at that area and some kind of
international peace conference to deal
with the multiple issues in the area no
matter what happens to Sodom Hussein
everyone says you know Saddam Hussein
didn't move into Kuwait to help the
Palestinians and I think that's probably
fair enough you know but we didn't move
into Saudi Arabia to stop nuclear
weapons either you know like we are
trying to pretend we did so let's get
past these pretenses and get to some
kind of comprehensive international
attempt to settle the problems in that
area because it's very clear there have
been great in justices on every side of
the question there's been a lot of
intrigue and a lot of of deception and
it you know we've got to find a better
way but I personally believe that Israel
is right in its way in the Palestinians
are right you have two groups of people
who are both are right in their own way
and the fact is is that that's the real
problem because i think the Israel has a
right to exist and the Palestinians have
a right to their government and so
that's if there is a peace conference
it'll have to deal with that question
and I I feel that I feel that you have
to talk to people there that both are
legitimate have legitimate feelings yes
and just one further aspect to it I mean
it seems to me that we do need that kind
of thing and it needs to be under
international supervision it can't be
you know the New World Order dictated by
the Czar of the White House it it you
know one of the dreadful aspects of this
whole Persian Gulf crisis is that
everyone is now touting a lot of the
press is touting the wonders of the UN
which is finally acting as its supposed
to never noticing that the only reason
the UN has been ineffective the last few
years is that the US has been vetoing
almost every effort to get any kind of
new approach to Israel they've been
vetoing any kind of resolutions that
would force us to own up to our own
criminality in Central America you know
so let's let's not ignore the cynicism
that's present in the newfound aplomb
going to the UN but at the same time i
think i think the UN and international
approaches to these problems is the only
way to get around some of this
factionalism hello there was an article
recently in the LA Times about what
constitutes a just war and I st.
Augustine was quoted as saying just war
assumes that that all avenues of peace
have been have been tried and that's not
the case with with this war there were
other options other there could have
been a military blockade that if the
sanctions were working as they were and
there's debate about that i mean we
could have could be trying a military
blockade that would have been an act of
war but but not as violent as what's
going on and what's going to be going on
in the near future do what it may it
makes it seem like like this is a naked
power play by by bush you know I know I
I can't view the world and such black
and white terms can you comment well you
know it may seem like it's a naked power
play because it is
and I don't think it's just by bush I
think it's by this whole you know the
banking interests and the military
contractors and there are lots of
interests at play here but getting back
to the Just War theory yes I think
you're exactly right there certainly
were other alternatives open they know
one alternative is for us to simply not
start the war at this time it's clear
that the sanctions in many ways are
working and it's clear that that the
Saddam Hussein was being isolated in
many ways that he was not getting
stronger and digging in as some of the
voices were saying he was getting weaker
I pointed out earlier that thing about
the rubber tires and that's just one
commodity so I think those who were
supporting this war were blind to that
order we're fully aware of that that's
where yet despite that it's hard to say
there's such brutal propaganda out that
perhaps many people have come to believe
that they that the sanctions weren't
working and we had to do it and all that
sort of thing but it you know where they
get this I don't know I can't get inside
their minds but just one further point
on this just war business I think that
the main thing that that was not done
was diplomatic efforts the impression
was given that all kinds of diplomatic
efforts were made that's nonsense we
didn't organism we went over it we went
over an issued ultimatums you know which
we knew that he wouldn't give in to and
and any truly diplomatic efforts were
systematically avoided so that's that's
one thing that wasn't done but the main
thing wasn't done was we simply didn't
wait long enough to allow the sanctions
to work and I find that it's obscene I
personally have a lot of trouble with
the Just War theory not as it was
originally formulated or even as it was
sometimes applied but when you look at
modern warfare where you have for
instance airplanes dropping bombs from a
30,000 foot level as they are this very
minute over the city of Baghdad and
they'll use terms like surgical strike
again which is a total prostitution of
the language surgeons do not drop by
bombs from 30,000 feet to cure illnesses
there's nothing pinpoint about it I just
don't think that the conditions of the
just war can even be met anymore given
the technology of modern warfare so this
is not a just war that we're into and if
it seems like naked aggression to you
maybe that's because it is well those
sanctions were not expected to start
working to start working really
effectively until april or may be the
end of the year when they started nobody
was expecting them to be fully crushing
iraq by january that's right that's
right and you know but even even if they
didn't force Saddam Hussein to leave
Kuwait the damage has already been done
to Kuwait what's the problem with
allowing that situation to go on for
several years there is no have to that
you know we have to invade because the
sanctions didn't work quickly enough
where does this have to come from it
comes out of the White House and out of
those who have to have this kind of
enemy and creations of enemy so that
they can maintain their levels of
military spending and profits hello oh
yeah I think to the George Bush's
accomplished much more than Hitler ever
dreamed a company he certainly got rid
of all talk of the peace dividend so
he's accomplished a lot even here at
home he has in many senses one I think
on his objectives hey I hit him on the
right oh absolutely absolutely and and
one need only look as far back as the
recent Senate Intelligence bill that
went through or some of the other bills
that are in process to see the sort of
way that Congress has in a sense
accepted its own irrelevance II means
that we're in for some troubled times
thank you but Bush vetoed that bill he
did which was interesting because we
found out that that there was a
concerted plan ahead of time that he
would make a few small concessions he
would
he would make written findings and
report them to Congress at least after
the fact but once the once the bill got
through with him having gained a lot and
given up very little he turned around
and basically kicked the people in the
teeth who made the agreement with him
and even even congressman be Lanson who
spearheaded the attempt to get all this
through was very upset about it he
issued a memorandum that was very strong
language for him about how the president
was ill-advised if he was advised at all
and you know it's hard to feel sorry for
Buell insane but the fact is that that
Bush basically went back on the
agreement and it's interesting to note
where things stand now because what it
means is there is not an appropriations
bill for the intelligence community and
George Bush is assuming that it's okay
for him to go ahead and spend the money
without Congress even appropriating it
he's taking it from the Pentagon budget
apparently so again it's it's a further
step toward the erosion of checks and
balances and I don't think it is too
strong a word to say that it's a further
step toward fascism no oh I have two
points I want to make I just agree with
father Davis d okay first one is that
our constitutional rights that we're
losing that you know the common man is
losing you're saying it is always lawful
rights here in America he's never had
those right it's not a new thing yes I
think it's a matter of degree if I may
interrupt I think you're right i would
agree with you with their there they
we've never had you know full equal
rights the Constitution didn't even
accept women or slaves or all kinds of
you know but who's at the right business
always been business always this was
always telling but it would happen today
and it and they have always been
subsidized that's right but there's
always been it yeah i agree with you but
at least there was a matta come of
democracy and a modicum of government
the people which is now on the wane I
think so it's I I don't know i don't
believe that monica man you're talking
about take kpfk for instance after ten
o'clock they could play stuff that some
people would consider pornographic but
once the government found out about it
they cut it off so now they can't even
play at any time yeah well yeah there's
no doubt that went late at six or it's
71 can look through our whole history
and find violations of the so-called
rights that we thought we had all I'm
saying is that I think that the the
absence of those rights and the erosion
of those rights is getting dramatically
worse and the other point I wanted to
make was that the American military they
build up a bush build up the Saddam that
he was a Hitler that he was powerful he
had tanks and army at everything so
therefore reaction was made by the
people that hate is going to be a bloody
war we don't want you know don't spill
blood for oil but the fact is it Arrakis
is a is a backward third world country
they don't have that kind of an army or
equipment well they do have some couple
of points knock them out so that
Americans are not going to lose don't be
too sure on that one I think they do
have some sophisticated equipment
because again I know that some of the
people that we're dealing with in the
Christic Institute lawsuit people like
Richard Armitage for instance who is one
of the characters that comes up in our
lawsuit and a close friend of George
Bush he wanted to appoint him to high
office but that was derailed because his
connections to the drug cartels of
Southeast Asia got exposed Richard
Armitage has been arranging arms deals
for Saddam Hussein and selling arms to
him from the US right up until the
invasion of Kuwait so we do know that he
does have some sophisticated weapons
ironically enough many of them bought
from the US thank you okay as a matter
of fact Ross Perot was talking on Larry
King show about
the u.s. trying desperately to get
saddam hussein some super computers yeah
through Brazil very after we had troops
in Saudi Arabia after august the US was
still trying to get that kind of
computer to to Saddam and that was
stopped by the CIA and the Pentagon yeah
it was I heard part of that I found it
fascinating that even Ross parole a
businessman like him was against are you
know going in there with military might
and found lots of reasons why we should
have taken more time the one point where
I would disagree with him is that he
said if I heard him correctly that once
the decision is made though and we go
then of course we have to support the
troops well I support the troops I
support them so much I want to bring
them home I think that's the way we
ought to support the troops is by
bringing them home hello yes I have a
question for you Father mm-hmm I support
the the Christic Institute and I try and
follow as closely as I can with us on
but I often hear criticism that it is a
conspiracy theory and that conspiracy
theories just rarely hold water and that
they're really not worth anything how do
you respond to such criticism when you
hear that you know I guess I don't
handle it as well as I should have I got
it even today I was being interviewed on
another radio station by telephone and
he said oh we know about your stuff it's
mostly conspiracy it bothers me that
people say such kind of nonsense because
frankly I don't think it is
conspiratorial I personally always try
to take the least conspiratorial
explanation that I can for something I
think I think what we have to say is you
know we've never the Christic Institute
has never held that this is some kind of
cabal that are tightly organized and
have like a board of directors and and
things are done by a small in group we
recognize that there are many many
forces that come to play banking forces
intelligence forces drug d
etc etc and they can sometimes move into
consort with one another and sometimes
not I don't think that's particularly
conspiratorial I guess finally I would
say to those who accuse us of being
conspiratorial is you know what are you
a coincidence theory I mean when when
people like Richard C chord and theodore
shackley keep turning up in in a whole
variety of theaters most recently the
SNL scandal you know that do you think
that happens by simply by some kind of
conspiracy I may not be a conspiracy nut
but I've long since given up being a
coincidence nut that's great that's a
good good argument I I'd also think that
what I usually try and add when people
accuse me of supporting conspiracy
theories is that there's documentation a
real conspiracy is kept absolutely
secret if you believe that there's
people who are really conspiratorial
they wouldn't you know they would not
let on who's in the conspiracy or why or
anything else there's there's often
documentation and and proof and facts
that that you can find for these yeah
and a lot of these things you know when
people say well such-and-such a group is
too conspiratorial it's simply a easy
way of writing it off so that you don't
have to deal with the issues i guess i
would maintain finally that you know
what we have said may be surprising to
some people it may be shocking to some
people it may sound conspiratorial to
some people none of that matters what
matters is is what we are saying true is
it the truth if it's the truth we darn
well better deal with it so i think
that's that's the bottom line for us and
if we if we're not correct point out
where we're wrong we would love to we'd
love to have our theories modified and
added to as has happened already by a
number of good healthy critics coming
along who have who made us be more
accurate but don't don't label us with
some kind of label tell us whether or
not what we're saying is true great
that's fantastic keep up the good work
in sacaton thank you
hello kpfk you're on the air with father
Davis yes I want to know what Deeping is
a definition of victory in George Bush's
by meaning the dolly thing to surrender
or or or the death of Saddam Hussein or
what what do you think well don't expect
me to make sense out of what George Bush
does i find it probably as puzzling as
you do i think that it really has very
little to do with saddam hussein just as
it had very little to do with Manuel
Noriega I think what it really has to do
with is with power and that victory is
the maintenance of a world order in
which an elite few like himself have a
lot to say and people who might get in
the way of their of their plans have
very little to say I think that's
ultimately what he considers victory but
you'd have to ask him i'm not sure thank
you this is kpfk los angeles we are on
the air live with father Bill Davis of
the Christic Institute as of January 17
1991 and keep him here for a few more
minutes oh hello this is Dorothy of La
Crescenta thank you for calling ah
listen I got that cut off so many times
I'm just grateful like that on god bless
you guys it's incredible thank you this
is just point of like kind of
information I think the 877 to Gulf
number is still going which is sponsored
by saying freeze and it's kind of like a
joke after the fact to let sanctions
work pre call and there's a 900 number
which I guess you guys advertise it nope
we didn't advertise any 900 numbers to
my knowledge ok well it's a it's a
ten-dollar call and I just tried it
twice 944 no war which each time you you
call you get you know ten dollars on
your phone bill to write a letter to
Bush telling them basically where to put
his little victory
and unfortunately i called it continent
a continent that's how long I've been
trying to get you guys the beep tone on
the 900 doesn't seem to be functioning
and picking up you know you're a little
you leave your name and address and
they'll send you further information
it's so anybody that wants to risk it
those are two you know anyway thank you
very much okay good yeah thanks for the
information we we have an 800 number to
the western union office which then you
know you can get a pre-written message
to go to your congressperson or senator
and so on and those messages will be
changed and updated regularly so that it
will fit the current crisis those
numbers can be obtained through our
office no by anybody who's interested
hello gore Vidal proposed a new
constitutional convention that the other
question was raised if the Bill of
Rights would would would survive a
constitutional convention my question is
do you think that that uh oh with a
constitutional convention of wood this
global flight collective on this CIA FBI
the National Security Agency white
supremacy co-opted a constitutional
convention has been and what would be
the result of that kind of go option I
mean what and if it's possible for um um
grassroots neighborhood councils are a
kind of I mean would that be a kind of
in run way to go to empower people you
know to to to oppose to politically
empower people to oppose of these kinds
of things that you know like before yeah
I think we have to have you I agree with
you there are some real fears and
worries about going to a constitutional
convention I think it would bring out of
the woodwork the the prayer in schools
you know stop the pornography
the kind of people that would be
manipulated by many of the others who
are really into a national security
state I think rather than risk all of
that I would prefer to take the Bill of
Rights which we have which you know
certainly isn't perfect but it's not bad
and let's insist that it be followed and
let's insist that the the rights be
respected and let's insist that we get
politicians all up and down the line who
will you know stand for that or be voted
out of office I think there's a lot more
to be gained by hanging on to what we
already have and putting it into
practice rather than going for something
new that could open a can of worms that
we don't know where the bottom will be
okay last call hello hi this is Camilla
from Los Angeles and honestly I really
appreciate having a vehicle Davis on the
show I was I had a question and I know
you might not be an expert in this but
last night Roy had tape from a guy named
Casey to pause and he was saying that he
felt that one reason this was happening
was the influence of the Sabbagh family
over the US banks but the banks are so
shaky that if they told their money out
they could really be stabilized the
banking system and I was wondering if
you had any thoughts on that well it's
ironic you should mention that we were
just talking about the tape and I'm
going to take it home with me and listen
to it thanks to Roy here but I have
heard from other sources that not only
the banks but the insurance companies
are in almost the same kind of shaky
status that the SNL's were a couple of
years ago so it's true about the
insurance companies yeah so I think you
know a number of our of our institutions
are in
in a lot shaky your status then we would
like to believe and of course that
always opens the possibility that they
will be manipulated by the people who
are who have this kind of messianic
complex that they know what's best for
us and they will simply bypass the
ordinary constitutional processes and
legal processes and do whatever they
think needs to be done that that's a
constant worry on my part I don't
profess to be an expert on the banking
system but again I do think it's
something that needs to be studied I
know that following the money you know
as they said back in Watergate follow
the money that'll tell you that'll tell
you what's going on we need to do that
with the money that the SNL's squandered
you know where is it it's got to be
somewhere and we shouldn't pay the bill
for that party which we were not invited
to until we find out where the money
went and we should also look at the
banks and the insurance companies so
keep up your curiosity in your research
I don't I'm afraid I don't have any
answers for you on that one okay thank
you okay okay well thank you Father bill
for coming down and sharing the latest
news and I personally have to say I'm
particularly glad you were here in this
very dark day at the beginning of the
war with Iraq and I take great comfort
whenever I see anybody who's been in the
struggle for peace for so long and so
successfully and to exchange energies
with you so a pleasure to be your ROI
and thank you for inviting and the
Christic institute again a lot Los
Angeles Chapter area code 21 3287 1556
287 1556 this is kpfk Los Angeles